# 4W and 1H of calculator
A calculator is a device that performs arithmetic operations on numbers. The simplest calculators can do only addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division. More sophisticated calculators can handle exponential operations, roots, logarithm s, trigonometric functions, and hyperbolic functions. Ever since, tedious mathematical problems in the organization is not a simple one, that is to say, the process can be said to involve a lot of procedures or protocols which ranges from insertion of figures for tedious calculation, processing of numbers and retrieval of errors. However, because of this, there is the need to accomplish an extensive research to discover the intricacies involved in the entire process. So the researcher decided to embark on this work design and implementation of a simple scientific calculator. Computer have gone from being fantasies of science, fiction of realities of everyday life, especially in the offices, school (educational organization). This work is a research aimed at solving the above problem. When this system actualizes, it would be received of solving tedious calculations and sophisticated mathematical problems. The process covers only of two approaches used in producing the simple calculator which are logic simulation and algorithm simulation due to the fact that it is difficult to develop a scientific simple calculator that will calculate every existing calculation in all field of study, this research has been limited to arithmetic operation calculation. The study also involves the visual basic programming language for the writing and running of the source code or program. The brief description on processed data in equally included. To help allow students to make quick, accurate mathematical calculations. To help students expand the scope of their mental abilities. To help students better understand intangible concepts, through tangible means. To teach logical thinking, and problem-solving skills.
